NATO Troops Enter Kosovo, Serbians Become Refugees
June 14, 1999


The North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) says 14,000 of its soldiers have entered the southern Yugoslavian province of Kosovo in the last 48 hours. 

This is the result of the agreement to end the war between NATO and the Yugoslav government led by President Slobodan Milosevic. 
The NATO troops are there to make sure that Yugoslavian soldiers leave the area. 
At least 10,000 Serbian soldiers and police have already left, along with all Serb military aircraft. 

But as NATO troops pour into the province, many of its residents feel they must leave. 

Clutching teddy bears, pet dogs and rifles, citizens of Serbian heritage streamed out of Prizren, Kosovo's second-largest city today. 

Many of them are afraid of the anger of their neighbours of Albanian heritage. 
They fear that when the ethnic Albanians return to the area now that the war is over, they may try to take revenge on the ethnic Serbs. 

With belongings lashed to the top of their cars, the new refugees said they were heading northwards to the Kosovo capital of Pristina or all the way to Serbia itself. 
Many were lifelong residents of Prizren. 

"We don't know where we are going. 
NATO can't guarantee our safety," said one man, his family gathered around a packed car as it prepared to join waves of people that began leaving today. 

"War is terrible," said a mother, her daughter preparing to put the family dog Licky into one of a line of cars jamming a cobblestone hillside street. 
On a nearby square, passengers climbed aboard a bus bound for Belgrade, the Yugoslav capital. 

There was no harassment from ethnic Albanian residents of Prizren, who like others across Kosovo, say they suffered looting, humiliation and expulsion at the hands of the Serb military and police. 

"This is not a fight between Albanians and Serbs. 
We have long lived together. 
Many of us wept when they were forced to leave," said the theology professor. 
"This is the politics of communism, of President Slobodan Milosevic." 

Thirteen hundred Canadian soldiers will participate in the occupation of Kosovo. 
Five hundred of them come from the Princess Patricia Canadian Light Infantry in Edmonton. 
They will serve with a British armoured brigade. 
Canadian troops are as well serving on a ship, the HMCS Athabascan, which is sailing in the Adriatic Sea, just off the coast of Yugoslavia. 

NATO spokesman Jamie Shea says troop deployment is going "very smoothly" and is slightly ahead of schedule. 
He says Yugoslav troops are sticking to their timetable for leaving the area and should be out of the southern sector of Kosovo by tomorrow's deadline. 
Under the peace agreement, all Serb forces must have withdrawn by Sunday, June 20. 

<QUESTIONS>
<Q1> When did 14,000 NATO troops enter the southern Yugoslavian province of Kosovo?
<Q2> Who is Slobodan Milosevic?
<Q3> Why are the NATO troops in Kosovo?
<Q4> As the NATO troops enter Kosovo, what do many of the residents of Kosovo feel they must do?
<Q5> Why are ethnic Serbians leaving Kosovo?
<Q6> What do ethnic Albanians say they suffered at the hands of Serbian military and police?
<Q7> Where are the ethnic Serbian refugees heading?
<Q8> How did the theology professor describe the politics of the Kosovo situation?
<Q9> According to NATO spokesman Jamie Shea, how is troop deployment going?
<Q10> When do all Serb forces have to be withdrawn from Kosovo?
