Ontario Voters Choose A Government
June 4, 1999


Ontario Premier Mike Harris says his re-election victory last night is an order for him to carry out another ambitious plan for the province. 

Premier Harris says it was the hardest-fought campaign in recent memory. 

Yesterday the Conservatives won 59 seats in the Ontario legislature. 
That means representatives of their party won in 59 "ridings" -- small political regions across the province. 
The Liberals led by Dalton McGuinty got 35 seats, and the New Democratic Party under leader Howard Hampton took nine seats. 

In Ontario's new 103-seat legislature, the Tories needed 52 seats for a majority government -- a government where they control more than half the seats. 
They got 8 more than that. 
A majority government makes it much easier for the ruling party to make decisions, because they get more than half of the votes on any issue. 

The Premier says he will now push ahead with following through on his campaign promises. 
They included things like cutting taxes, testing teachers, and cracking down on panhandlers and squeegee kids. 

It's the first time in 32 years that any party has won two majority governments in a row in Ontario. 

"Four years ago you sent me to do a job, you placed your faith in our team, in our plan, and we have done our very best to implement that plan and keep your faith," Premier Harris told cheering supporters in North Bay. 
"There is a new pride in Ontario. 
Our economy is back on track... 
faith in our future has been restored." 

Premier Harris was attacked during the campaign as leading a mean-spirited government, and for being a man who refused to compromise. 
During the campaign, he was hounded by protesters at every appearance. 

Election day began with a controversy, as polls did not open on time in several ridings. 
Several returning officers (the people in charge of a polling station) called in sick. 
In some cases, ballot boxes did not arrive on time and in other cases, problems with the voters list caused long line-ups. 

The problems forced Ontario's chief elections officer, Warren Baillie, to keep some polls open until as late as 11:00 pm. 

The residents of New Brunswick will be going to the polls on Monday, June 7th. 

<QUESTIONS>
<Q1> How did Ontario Premier Mike Harris describe his re-election campaign?
<Q2> What are ridings?
<Q3> Why does a majority government make it much easier for the ruling party to make decisions?
<Q4> Who is the leader of the Liberals?
<Q5> When was the last time any party won two majority governments in a row in Ontario?
<Q6> Where did Premier Mike Harris address cheering supporters?
<Q7> Why was Premier Harris attacked during the campaign?
<Q8> Who hounded Mike Harris at every appearance?
<Q9> Why did election day begin with controversy?
<Q10> What are returning officers?
