Her Excellency Adrienne Clarkson
October 8, 1999


Former CBC broadcaster Adrienne Clarkson was installed as Canada's 26th Governor General yesterday morning. 

Ms. Clarkson took the Oath of Office in front of Supreme Court of Canada Justice Claire L'Heureux Dube. 

The Governor General must also swear the Oath of Allegiance, the Oath of Office and Oath of Keeper of the Great Seal of Canada. 

The Governor General formally takes office once the oaths have been sworn and assumes the title "Excellency" while in office, and the lifetime title of "Right Honourable". 
The Governor General's spouse is also referred to as "Excellency". 

The installation of a Governor General in Ottawa is a major state occasion. 
Many of Canada's political leaders, including Prime Minister Jean Chretien, Supreme Court Chief Justice Antonio Lamer, the cabinet, and Opposition Leader Preston Manning attended the ceremony. 

During a speech, Ms. Clarkson fought back tears as she praised her 92-year-old father, and her mother whom she said was there in spirit. 

She recalled her family's arrival as refugees from Hong Kong in 1942. 
In her speech she quoted poets and philosophers, including her husband John Ralston Saul in praising Canada's struggle to create a country filled with tolerance and civility. 

Ms. Clarkson also thanked teachers whom she said treated her as "bright, not bright yellow." 

As Governor General, Ms. Clarkson represents the Queen of England, who is the legal head of the Canada. 
Past Governor Generals include Lord Stanley, who the Stanley Cup is named after, and Lord Grey, who the Grey Cup is named after. 

Some of the Governor General's responsibilities include giving Royal Assent to bills passed by the House of Commons and the Senate, signing State documents, opening and ending sessions of Parliament, and dissolving Parliament for an election. 
She also presides over the swearing-in of the Prime Minister, the Chief Justice of Canada and cabinet ministers. 

Next week Clarkson will read the speech from the throne to open the new session of parliament. 

<QUESTIONS>
<Q1> Who delivered the Oath of Office to Adrienne Clarkson?
<Q2> Where did the swearing-in of Ms. Clarkson take place?
<Q3> While in office, what title does Ms. Clarkson assume?
<Q4> Why do many of Canada's political leaders attend the installation ceremony for Governor General?
<Q5> Who did Ms. Clarkson praise during her speech?
<Q6> When did Ms. Clarkson's family arrive in Canada?
<Q7> In her speech, Ms. Clarkson quoted poets and philosophers in praising Canada for struggling to do what?
<Q8> How did Ms. Clarkson say her teachers treated her?
<Q9> As Governor General, who does Ms. Clarkson represent?
<Q10> As Governor General, Ms. Clarkson presides over the swearing-in of what Canadian officials?
