Nova Scotia elects a new government
July 28, 1999


John Hamm has been elected the new Premier of Nova Scotia. 
Hamm is the leader of the Nova Scotia Progressive Conservative Party. 

The PC party defeated both the Liberal Party government led by Premier Russell MacLellan and Robert Chisholm's New Democratic Party. 

The election was not as close as many experts thought it would be. 
The Conservatives were able to win a majority government, meaning they will have more members in the legislature than both parties combined. 
The Conservatives won 29 seats, the New Democrats 12 and the Liberals 11. 

After the last election Nova Scotia had a minority government. 
That means that no one party had more than half the seats in the legislature. 

Hamm has promised to cut people's taxes within three years. 
He also plans to reduce the number of government workers. 

Hamm is a 61-year-old doctor with only six years of political experience. 
His majority win was a comeback for the PC Party. 
The party placed third in the last election. 

Liberal leader Russell MacLellan was forced to call the election after the other parties voted against his budget. 
When the government is defeated on a major bill, like one that is about money, it means the legislature has lost confidence in them. 
This vote of non-confidence means the premier must either quit, or call a new election. 
MacLellan decided to call a new election. 
He says he will stay on as leader of the Nova Scotia Liberal Party despite losing his job as premier. 

<QUESTIONS>
<Q1> Where were elections for premier held?
<Q2> Who is Russell MacLellan?
<Q3> How many seats in the legislature did the Progressive Conservatives win in the election?
<Q4> What does it mean to have a minority government?
<Q5> How did the PC party place in the last election?
<Q6> By when has Hamm promised to cut people's taxes?
<Q7> Why was Russell MacLellan forced to call an election?
<Q8> What does it mean when the government is defeated on a major bill?
<Q9> What must a premier do when there is a vote of non-confidence?
