Remembering the Swissair Tragedy
September 1, 1999


The last passengers of Swissair Flight 111 were laid to rest yesterday in a solemn ceremony hidden by blue tarp walls that were put up to keep preparations for today's memorial service private. 

On the night of September 2, 1998, Swissair Flight 111 was following its regular course from New York to Geneva, Switzerland. 
As it flew near the Nova Scotia coast the cockpit filled with smoke. 

The pilots put on their emergency masks and manoeuvred the plane to dump fuel into the Atlantic ocean in preparation for an emergency landing in Halifax. 
They never made it. 
As they circled, the McDonnell Douglas MD-11 plunged into the ocean. 

All 229 persons aboard the plane died. 

About 800 friends and relatives of the people who died are expected to mark the disaster's one year anniversary today and tomorrow. 

Two dozen caskets containing the unidentified remains of passengers from the transatlantic flight were buried at this scenic point overlooking the crash site. 

For Muriel Kitsinger, who lost her husband Eric, the visit was bittersweet. 

"It's strange," she says. 
"I like to go back here. 
I feel closer and I like the area.... 
On the other end it's very difficult." 

Barbara Fetherolf of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, whose teenage daughter Tara died in the crash, says that she could not bear to attend the memorial. 

Nor can she or her husband Mark turn on the television. 

"We're just in too much pain to watch this," she says. 

Most of the families that plan to attend are hoping to put the tragedy behind them, says Mary Garnier, part of a group that pairs victims' relatives with Nova Scotia families. 

"But they also want to come and meet the people who were so good to them and who did so much after the tragedy," she says. 

<QUESTIONS>
<Q1> Why were the blue tarp walls put up?
<Q2> When did Swissair Flight 111 crash into the ocean?
<Q3> What did the two dozen caskets buried at the scenic site contain?
<Q4> Where was Swissair Flight 111 bound for?
<Q5> Where did the pilots intend to dump fuel?
<Q6> What kind of plane were the Swissair Flight 111 pilots flying?
<Q7> How many friends and relatives of the people who died in the plane crash were expected to mark the one-year anniversary?
<Q8> Who described her visit to the scenic point overlooking the crash site as bittersweet?
<Q9> What did Barbara Fetherolf of Philadelphia say she could not bear to do?
<Q10> What does the group that Mary Garnier is part of do for victims' relatives?
