Bad Habits Hurt Native Kids
January 29, 1999


Thousands of Quebec native kids are hurting themselves. 
Big time. 
They're even shortening their own lives. 
And it's got a lot to do with chips, chocolate bars and cigarettes. 

A new study of 56,000 native people shows they fall prey to chronic disease younger than most other Canadians. 

Quebec aboriginals are twice as likely to smoke as other Quebecers. 
What's more, the study found that some Quebec natives start smoking at five years old. 

No, that's not a typing mistake. 
Five years old. 
Some kids are puffing away before they start grade one. 

The survey "confirms what we've been saying for years," says Ghislain Picard, vice-chief of the Assembly of First Nations for Quebec and Labrador. 

"It clearly demonstrates that governments have to do more to give our people more strength." 

The study was conducted by aboriginals. 
This is important because it means that aboriginal people are trying to help themselves. 

The document paints a bleak picture of health on and off Quebec reserves. 
Two thousand people in 10 Quebec communities were studied, including 200 aboriginals living in Montreal. 
The study did not include Quebec's northern Cree or Inuit. 

Of the adult aboriginals surveyed, 6 people out of 10 are regular smokers. 
The rate in the general population is 3 in 10. 
Two out of three aboriginals live in a home with at least one smoker. 
So there is almost always second hand smoke in the air. 

Ten per cent of the aboriginals surveyed suffer from diabetes, compared with 2 per cent among other Quebecers. 
Other major chronic ailments include high blood pressure, arthritis, asthma, tuberculosis and heart problems. 

Researchers say that Quebec aboriginals consume way too much salt, sugar and fat. Those are the ingredients you find in foods like chips, pop, hamburgers and french fries. 

The results of this study are even more startling because a majority of the people studied are under 45. 

As other studies have shown, the infant-mortality rate among native Canadians is twice the Canadian average. 
This means native babies die twice as often as other Canadian babies. 
This statistic is directly tied to the high rate of poverty among Native Canadians. 

Garry Carbonnell, who helped with the study says, "we all know of the deplorable living conditions of the aboriginal people -- they rank 63rd in the world in terms of living conditions. 
But now we have some real numbers to work with." 

<QUESTIONS>
<Q1> Who was the focus of the health study discussed in this article?
<Q2> What, according to the study, do some aboriginals start doing at age five?
<Q3> How old were the majority of those studied?
<Q4> How many of the adults in the general population are smokers?
<Q5> Why are most native Canandians exposed to second hand smoke in their homes?
<Q6> Compared to the rest of the world, how do the living conditions of aboriginals rank?
<Q7> Who is the vice-chief of the Assembly of First Nations for Quebec and Labrador?
