Newfoundland's Contaminated Tap Water
January 12, 2000


The Newfoundland government has found that the tap water in 63 communities is contaminated. 
The water contains higher than acceptable levels of chemicals known as trihalomethanes or THMs. 

These potentially dangerous chemicals have been linked to cancer and miscarriages (failed pregnancies). 
They are formed when tiny amounts of chlorine are added to drinking water. 
Chlorine - also known as "bleach" - is also added to the water in many swimming pools. 
You've no doubt noticed the smell. 

The danger of trihalomethanes in drinking water is faced mainly by small towns that can't afford expensive water filtration systems. 

Chlorination is necessary for two reasons. 
First, almost all sources of water contain microbiological organisms which have to be removed to prevent the outbreak of diseases such as typhoid fever and cholera. 
Second, once the treated water leaves the treatment plant, it travels through water pipes. 
During this trip, from the plant to your tap, it is necessary to have a disinfectant in the water to guard against the regrowth of microorganisms. 

Nova Scotia also recently identified 18 communities with unacceptably high levels of trihalomethanes. 

Newfoundland's environment minister says he plans to hire an expert who will look into reducing the amount of THMs in the water supply. 

In the meantime, Oliver Langdon says people shouldn't panic. 

"People should not be alarmed about this matter. 
The benefits of disinfecting our water far outweigh the health effects of THMs." 

Many Newfoundland residents are upset with the government. 
They say the government has known there were problems but hid the facts from the public. 
Fogo town manager Bruce Pomeroy says that the government "should have made everyone aware if there were risks -- like they are doing now -- two years ago." 

There are easy ways of getting rid of many of the THMs in drinking water. 

You can leave water in an open container for 24 hours, and many of the chemicals will evaporate. 
You can also pour the water through a charcoal-based water filter, like the popular ones many people keep in the fridge. 
The charcoal will absorb the chemicals. 

<QUESTIONS>
<Q1> Where has the Newfoundland government found tap water contaminated?
<Q2> How are trihalomethanes formed?
<Q3> Which towns face the danger of THMs in drinking water?
<Q4> Why do microbiological organisms have to be removed from water?
<Q5> Why is chlorine used to treat water as it travels through water pipes?
<Q6> Who is Newfoundland's environment minister?
<Q7> Why are many Newfoundland residents upset with the government?
<Q8> According to Fogo town manager Bruce Pomeroy, when should the government have made everyone aware if there were risks from THMs?
<Q9> If water is left in an opened container for 24 hours, what happens to many of the chemicals?
<Q10> What does charcoal do to chemicals in water?
